
DATA: CALIFORNIA CENSUS
MODEL: MODEL OF HOUSING PRICES IN THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

DATA INCLUDES: Population, median income,median housing price for each "block group".
"block gruop": are the smallest geographicall unit for which the US ensus Bureau publishes sample data( typicallly has a population of 600 to 3000 people), we will call them "districts".

APPENDIX B. MACHINE LEARNING PROJECT CHECKLIST

	1. Frame the problem and look at the big picture.
	2. Get the data.
	3. Explore the data to gain insights.
	4. Prepare the data to better expose the underlying data patterns to Machine Learning algorithms.
	5. Explore many different models and shortlists the best ones.
	6. Fine-tune your models and combine them into a great solution.
	7. Present your solution.
	8. Launch, monitor and mantain your system.

FRAME THE PROBLEM AND LOOK AT THE BIG PICTURE
	1.Deffine the objectives in busness terms.
	2. How will your soulution be used?
	3. What are the current solutions/workarounds(if any)?
	4. How should you frame this problem: supervised/unsupervised, online/offline, etc.
	5. How should performance be measured?
	6. Is the performance measure aligned whit the busness objective?
	7. What would be the minimum performance needed to reach the business objective?
	8. What are comparable problems? Can you reuse experiences or tools?
	9. Is human expertise available?
	10. How would you solve the problem manually?
	11. List the assumptions you (or others) have made so far.
	12. Verify assumptionif possible.

GET THE DATA
	1. List the data you need and hoow much you need.
	2. Find and document where you can get the data.
	3. Check how much space it will take.
	4. Check legal obligations, and get authorization if neccessary.
	5. Get access authorizations.
	6. Create a workspace (with enough storage space).
	7. Get the data.
	8. COnvert the data to a format you can easily manipulate (without changing the data itself).
	9. Ensure sensitive information is deleted or protected (e.g. anonymized).
	10. Check the size and type of data (time series, sample, geographical, etc).
	11. Sample a test set, put it aside, and never look at it.

EXPLORE THE DATA
	1. Create a copy of the data for exploration.
	2. Create a Jupyter notebook to keep a record of your data eploration.
	3. Study eaech atrribute and its characteristics:
	4. For supervised learning tasks, identify the target attribute(s).
	5. Visualize the data.
	6. Study the correlations between attributes.
	7. Study how you would solve the problem manually. 
	8. Identiffy the promising transformations you may want to apply.
	9. Identify extra data that would be useful.
	10 Document what you have learned.

PREPARE THE DATA
	- Work on copies of the data ( keep the original data set intact).
	- Write functions of all data transformations you apply:
		-So you can easily prepare the data the next time you get a fresh dataset.
		- So you can apply thse transformations in future projects.
		- To clean and preapare the test set.
		- To clean and prepare new data instances onces uour solition is live.
		- To make it easy to treat your preparations choices as hyperparameters
	1. Data cleaning: Fix or remove outliers(optional), Fill in missing values or drop their rows.
	2. Feature selection (optional): Drop the attributes that provide not useful information for the task. 
	3. Feature engineering, where appropriate
	4. Feature scaling.

SHORTLIST PROMISING MODELS
	1. Train many quick-and-dirty models from different categories( e.g., linear, naive Bayes, SVM, RandomForest, neural net, etc.) using standar parameters.
	2.Measure and compare their performance.
		-For each model, use N-Fold cross-validation and compute the mean and standard deviation of the performance measure on the N-folds.
	3. Analyze the most significant variables for ecah algorithm.
	4. Analyze the types of errors the models make. 
	5. Perform a quick round of feature selection and engineering.
	6. Perform one or two more quick iterations of the five previous steps.
	7. Shortlist the top three to five most promisingmodels, preferring models that make different types of errors. 



			CALIFORNIA HOUSING PRICES

			